1.22 releasenotes (#15044)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.22.x/announcing-1.22/change-notes/index.md

---
title: Istio 1.22.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.22.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.22.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2024-05-13
release: 1.22.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.22.0
---

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/docs/releases/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definition). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

> - **Deprecated** usage of `values.istio_cni` in favor of `values.pilot.cni`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deprecated** usage of `values.istio_cni` in favor of `values.pilot.cni`.
```

  ([Issue #49290](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49290))

## Traffic Management

> - **Improved** `ServiceEntry` with `resolution: NONE` to respect `targetPort`, if specified.
> This is particularly useful when doing TLS origination, allowing to set `port:80, targetPort: 443`.
> If undesired set `--compatibilityVersion=1.21` to revert to the old behavior, or remove the `targetPort` specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** `ServiceEntry` with `resolution: NONE` to respect `targetPort`, if specified.
  This is particularly useful when doing TLS origination, allowing to set `port:80, targetPort: 443`.
  If undesired, set `--compatibilityVersion=1.21` to revert to the old behavior or remove the `targetPort` specification.
```

> - **Improved** XDS generation to send less resource when possible, sometimes omitting a response entirely.
> This can be disabled by the `PILOT_PARTIAL_FULL_PUSHES=false` environment variable, if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** XDS generation to do utilize fewer resources when possible, sometimes omitting a response entirely.
  This can be disabled by the `PILOT_PARTIAL_FULL_PUSHES=false` environment variable, if necessary.
```

  ([Issue #37989](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/37989)),([Issue #37974](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/37974))

> - **Added** support for skipping the initial installation of CNI entirely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for skipping the initial installation of the CNI entirely.
```

- **Added** a node taint controller to istiod which removes the `cni.istio.io/not-ready` taint from a node once the Istio CNI pod is ready on that node.
  ([Issue #48818](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48818)),([Issue #48286](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48286))

- **Added** endpoints acked generation to the proxy distribution report available through the pilot debug API `/debug/config_distribution`.
  ([Issue #48985](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48985))

> - **Added** support for configuring waypoint in Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for configuring waypoint proxies for Services.
```

> - **Added** capability to annotate pods, services, namespaces and other similar kinds with an annotation, `istio.io/use-waypoint`, to specify a waypoint in the form `[<namespace name>]/<waypoint name>`. This replaces the old requirement for waypoints either being scoped to the entire namespace or to a single service account. Opting out of a waypoint can also be done with a value of `#none` to allow a namespace-wide waypoint where specific pods or services are not guarded by a waypoint allowing greater flexibility in waypoint specification and use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** capability to annotate pods, services, namespaces and other similar kinds with an annotation, `istio.io/use-waypoint`, to specify a waypoint in the form `[<namespace name>/]<waypoint name>`. This replaces the old requirement for waypoints either being scoped to the entire namespace or to a single service account. Opting out of a waypoint can also be done with a value of `#none` to allow a namespace-wide waypoint where specific pods or services are not guarded by a waypoint allowing greater flexibility in waypoint specification and use.
```

  ([Issue #49436](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49436))

> - **Added** Implement support in waypoint for istio.io/waypoint-for annotation.  ([Issue #49851](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49851))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for the `istio.io/waypoint-for` annotations in waypoint proxies.
  ([Issue #49851](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49851))
```

> - **Added** a check to prevent creation of ztunnel config when user has specified a gateway as `targetRef` in their AuthorizationPolicy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** a check to prevent creation of ztunnel config when user has specified a gateway as `targetRef` in their AuthorizationPolicy.
```

  ([Issue #50110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50110))

> - **Added** the annotation `networking.istio.io/address-type` to allow `istio` class Gateways to use `ClusterIP` for status addresses.
> **Added** the ability to annotate workloads or services with `istio.io/use-waypoint` pointing to Gateways of arbitrary gateway classes.
> 
> These changes allow configuring a standard `istio` gateway as a Waypoint.
> For this to work, it must be configured as a `ClusterIP` Service with
> redirection enabled. This is colloquially referred to as a "gateway
> sandwich" where the zTunnel layer handles mTLS.
>   ([Issue #48362](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48362))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the annotation `networking.istio.io/address-type` to allow `istio` class Gateways to use `ClusterIP` for status addresses.

- **Added** the ability to annotate workloads or services with `istio.io/use-waypoint` pointing to Gateways of arbitrary gateway classes.
  These changes allow configuring a standard Istio gateway as a waypoint.
  For this to work, it must be configured as a `ClusterIP` Service with
  redirection enabled. This is colloquially referred to as a "gateway
  sandwich" where the ztunnel layer handles mTLS.
  ([Issue #48362](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48362))
```

> - **Added** functionality to enroll individual pods into ambient by labeling them with `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** functionality to enroll individual pods into ambient by labeling them with `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient`.
```

  ([Issue #50355](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50355))

> - **Added** Allow pods to be opted out of ambient capture using the `istio.io/dataplane-mode=none` label.
> **Removed** the ability to opt-out pods from ambient capture using the `ambient.istio.io/redirection=disabled` annotation, as that is a status annotation reserved for the CNI.
>   ([Issue #50736](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50736))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability to allow pods to be opted out of ambient redirection by using the `istio.io/dataplane-mode=none` label.
  ([Issue #50736](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50736))

- **Removed** the ability to opt-out pods from ambient redirection using the `ambient.istio.io/redirection=disabled` annotation, as that is a status annotation reserved for the CNI.
  ([Issue #50736](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50736))
```

> - **Added** an environment variable for istiod `PILOT_GATEWAY_API_DEFAULT_GATEWAYCLASS_NAME` that allows overriding the name of the default `GatewayClass` Gateway API resource. The default value is `istio`.
> **Added** an environment variable for istiod `PILOT_GATEWAY_API_CONTROLLER_NAME` that allows overriding the name of the Istio Gateway API controller as exposed in the `spec.controllerName` field in the `GatewayClass` resource. The default value is `istio.io/gateway-controller`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** an environment variable for istiod `PILOT_GATEWAY_API_DEFAULT_GATEWAYCLASS_NAME` that allows overriding the name of the default `GatewayClass` Gateway API resource. The default value is `istio`.

- **Added** an environment variable for istiod `PILOT_GATEWAY_API_CONTROLLER_NAME` that allows overriding the name of the Istio Gateway API controller as exposed in the `spec.controllerName` field in the `GatewayClass` resource. The default value is `istio.io/gateway-controller`.
```

> - **Added** support for outbound traffic Proxy Protocol. By specifying `proxyProtocol` in a `DestinationRule.trafficPolicy`,
> the sidecar will send Proxy Protocol headers to the upstream service. This feature is not supported for HBONE proxy now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for using the PROXY Protocol for outbound traffic. By specifying `proxyProtocol` in a `DestinationRule.trafficPolicy`,
  the sidecar will send PROXY Protocol headers to the upstream service. This feature is not supported with HBONE proxy for now.
```

> - **Added** rejecting `DestinationRules` with duplicate subset names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** validation checks to reject `DestinationRules` with duplicate subset names.
```

- **Added** the controller now publishes gateway-api `supportedFeatures` on Gateway Class Status before accepting the Gateway Class.
  ([Issue #2162](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/issues/2162))

> - **Added** checking services' Resolution, `LabelSelector` in addition to `ServiceRegistry` and Namespace when merging services during `SidecarScope` construction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** checking services' `Resolution`, `LabelSelector`, `ServiceRegistry`, and namespace when merging services during `SidecarScope` construction.
```

- **Enabled** [Delta xDS](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol#incremental-xds) by default. See upgrade notes for more information.
  ([Issue #47949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47949))

- **Fixed** an issue where the Kubernetes gateway was not working correctly with the namespace waypoint.

- **Fixed** an issue where the delta ADS client received a response which contains `RemoveResources`.

> - **Fixed** an issue that when using `withoutHeaders` to configure route matching rules in VirtualService,
> if the fields specified in `withoutHeaders` do not exist in the request header, Istio cannot match the request.  ([Issue #49537](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49537))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue that when using `withoutHeaders` to configure route matching rules in `VirtualService`.
  If the fields specified in `withoutHeaders` do not exist in the request header, Istio cannot match the request.
  ([Issue #49537](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49537))
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where priority of envoy filters is ignored when they are in root namespace and proxy namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the priority of envoy filters is ignored when they are in root namespace and proxy namespace.
```

  ([Issue #49555](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49555))

> - **Fixed** an issue where `--log_as_json` option doesn't work for Istio init container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `--log_as_json` option did not work for the `istio-init` container.
```

  ([Issue #44352](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/44352))

> - **Fixed** an issue with massive Virtual IPs reshuffling when add/remove duplicated host  ([Issue #49965](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49965))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue with massive Virtual IPs reshuffling when adding or removing a duplicated host.
  ([Issue #49965](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49965))
```

- **Fixed** Gateway status addresses receiving Service VIPs from outside the cluster.

> - **Fixed** `use-waypoint` should be a label, for consistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** annotation `use-waypoint` to be a label, for consistency.
```

  ([Issue #50572](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50572))

> - **Fixed** build EDS typed cluster endpoints with domain address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** build EDS-typed cluster endpoints with domain address.
```

  ([Issue #50688](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50688))

> - **Fixed** a bug where injection template incorrectly evaluates when `InboundTrafficPolicy` is set to "localhost".  ([Issue #50700](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50700))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where injection template incorrectly evaluated when `InboundTrafficPolicy` was set to "localhost".
  ([Issue #50700](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50700))
```

> - **Fixed** added server-side keepalive to waypoint HBONE endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** added server-side keepalive to waypoint HBONE endpoints.
```

  ([Issue #50737](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50737))

> - **Fixed** a regression in Istio 1.21.0 causing `VirtualService`s routing to `ExternalName` services to not work when `ENABLE_EXTERNAL_NAME_ALIAS=false` is configured.

Reviewer: This should be fixed in a 1.21 patch, so doesn't need to be here.

> - **Fixed** empty prefix match in `HTTPMatchRequest` not rejected by the validating webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** empty prefix match in `HTTPMatchRequest` not being rejected by the validating webhook.
```

  ([Issue #48534](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48534))

> - **Fixed** a behavioral change in Istio 1.20 that caused merging of ServiceEntries with the same hostname and port names
> to give unexpected results.
>   ([Issue #50478](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50478))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a behavioral change in Istio 1.20 that caused merging of `ServiceEntries` with the same hostname and port names
  to give unexpected results.
  ([Issue #50478](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50478))
```

> - **Fixed** a bug when a Sidecar is resource is defined with multiple egress listeners with different ports of a Kubernetes service, does not merge the ports correctly. This leads to creating only one Cluster with the first port and second port is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug when a Sidecar resource not merging ports correctly when it is configured with multiple egress listeners with different ports of a Kubernetes service. This lead to creating only one Cluster with the first port, and the second port was ignored.
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing routes to be overwritten by other virtual services.

> - **Removed** `values.cni.privileged` flag from `istio-cni` node agent chart in favor of feature-specific permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the `values.cni.privileged` flag from `istio-cni` node agent chart in favor of feature-specific permissions.
```

  ([Issue #49004](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49004))

- **Removed** the `PILOT_ENABLE_HEADLESS_SERVICE_POD_LISTENERS` feature flag.

> - **Removed** the `PILOT_ENABLE_INBOUND_PASSTHROUGH` setting, which has been enabled-by-default for the past 8 releases.
> This feature can now be configured using a new [Inbound Traffic Policy Mode](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/9911a0a6990a18a45ed1b00559156dcc7e836e52/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto#L203).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the `PILOT_ENABLE_INBOUND_PASSTHROUGH` setting, which has been enabled-by-default for the past 8 releases.
  This feature can now be configured using a new [Inbound Traffic Policy Mode](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/9911a0a6990a18a45ed1b00559156dcc7e836e52/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto#L203).
```

## Security

> - **Updated** default value of the feature flag `ENABLE_AUTO_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING` to true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated** the default value of the feature flag `ENABLE_AUTO_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING` to `true`.
```

> - **Added** support for path templating in AuthorizationPolicy, See Envoy URI template [docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/path/match/uri_template/v3/uri_template_match.proto).  ([Issue #16585](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16585))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for path templating in `AuthorizationPolicy`. See Envoy URI template [docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/path/match/uri_template/v3/uri_template_match.proto).
  ([Issue #16585](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/16585))
```

> - **Added** support for customizing timeout when resolving `jwksUri`
>   ([Issue #47328](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47328))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for customizing the connection timeout setting when resolving `jwksUri`.
  ([Issue #47328](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47328))
```

> - **Added** support for Istio CA to handle node authorization for CSRs with impersonate identity from remote clusters.
> This could help Istio CA to authenticate ztunnel in remote clusters in an external control plane scenario.  ([Issue #47489](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47489))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for Istio CA to handle node authorization for CSRs with impersonating the identity of remote clusters.
  This could help Istio CA to authenticate ztunnel in remote clusters in an external control plane scenario.
    ([Issue #47489](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47489))
```

> - **Added** An environment variable `METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY` for disabling metrics endpoint from outside of the pod, to allow only localhost access. User can use set this with command
> `--set values.pilot.env.METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY=true` for Control plane and `--set meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY=true` for proxy while istioctl installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** an environment variable `METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY` for disabling metrics endpoint from outside of the pod, to allow only localhost access. User can set this with command arguments
  `--set values.pilot.env.METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY=true` for control plane and `--set meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.METRICS_LOCALHOST_ACCESS_ONLY=true` for proxy during `istioctl` installation.
```

> - **Added** Certificate Revocation List(CRL) support for peer certificate validation based on file paths specified in `ClientTLSSettings` in destination rule for Sidecars and in `ServerTLSSettings` in Gateway for Gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** Certificate Revocation List (CRL) support for peer certificate validation based on file paths specified in `ClientTLSSettings` in destination rule for Sidecars, and in `ServerTLSSettings` in Gateway for Gateways.
```

- **Fixed** list matching for the audience claims in JWT tokens.
  ([Issue #49913](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49913))

> - **Removed** the `first-party-jwt` legacy option for `values.global.jwtPolicy`. Support for the more secure `third-party-jwt`
> has been default for many years and is supported in all Kubernetes platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the `first-party-jwt` legacy option for `values.global.jwtPolicy`. Support for the more secure `third-party-jwt`
  has been default for many years and is supported in all Kubernetes platforms.
```

## Telemetry

> - **Improved** JSON access logs to emit keys in a stable ordering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** JSON access logs to emit keys in a consistent order.
```

> - **Added** option to export OpenTelemetry traces via HTTP
>  ([reference]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-ExtensionProvider-OpenTelemetryTracingProvider)) ([Issue #47835](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47835))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** option to export OpenTelemetry traces via HTTP.
  ([reference]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-ExtensionProvider-OpenTelemetryTracingProvider)) ([Issue #47835](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47835))
```

> - **Enabled** configuring Dynatrace Sampler for the `OpenTelemetryTracingProvider` in `MeshConfig`.
>   ([Issue #50001](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50001))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enabled** configuring Dynatrace Sampler as the `OpenTelemetryTracingProvider` in `MeshConfig`.
  ([Issue #50001](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50001))
```

> - **Enabled** configuring Resource Detectors for the `OpenTelemetryTracingProvider` in `MeshConfig`.
>   ([Issue #48885](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48885))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enabled** configuring Resource Detectors as the `OpenTelemetryTracingProvider` in `MeshConfig`.
  ([Issue #48885](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48885))
```

> - **Fixed** an issue that `TraceId` is not propagated when using OpenTelemetry access logger.
>   ([Issue #49911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49911))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `TraceId` was not propagated when using OpenTelemetry access logger.
  ([Issue #49911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49911))
```

- **Removed** default tracing configuration that enables tracing to `zipkin.istio-system.svc`. See upgrade notes for more information.

## Extensibility

> - **Improved** Use tag-stripped URL + checksum as a Wasm module cache key, and the tagged URL is separately cached.
> This may increase the chance of cache hit (e.g., trying to find the same image with both of the tagged and digest URLs.)
> In addition, this will be a base to implement `ImagePullPolicy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** using the tag-stripped URL and checksum as a Wasm module cache key, where the tagged URL is separately cached.
  This may increase the chance of cache hits (e.g., trying to find the same image with both of the tagged and digest URLs.)
  In addition, this will be a base to implement `ImagePullPolicy`.
```

## Installation

> - **Improved** helm value field names to configure whether an existing CNI install
>  will be used. Instead of `values.istio_cni` the enablement fields will be in
>  `values.pilot.cni` as istiod is the affected component.
>  That is clearer than having `values.cni` for install config and `values.istio_cni`
>  for enablement in istiod. The old `values.istio_cni` fields will still be supported
>  for at least two releases.
>   ([Issue #49290](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49290))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Helm value field names to configure whether an existing CNI install
  will be used. Instead of `values.istio_cni` the enablement fields will be in
  `values.pilot.cni`, as istiod is the affected component.
  The new setting is more clear than having `values.cni` for install config and `values.istio_cni`
  for enablement in istiod. The old `values.istio_cni` fields will still be supported
  for at least two releases.
  ([Issue #49290](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49290))
```

- **Improved** the `meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata` field to do a deep merge when overridden, rather than replacing all values.

> - **Added** Allow user to add customized annotation to istiod service account resource through helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability to add customized annotations to istiod service account resource through the Helm chart.
```

> - **Added** `openshift-ambient` profile.
>   ([Issue #42341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/42341))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `openshift-ambient` profile.
  ([Issue #42341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/42341))
```

> - **Added** a new, optional experimental admission policy that only allows stable features/fields to be used in Istio APIs
>   ([Issue #173](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/173))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** a new, optional experimental admission policy that only allows stable features/fields to be used in Istio APIs.
  ([Issue #173](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/173))
```

> - **Added** support for configuring ca bundle for validation and injection webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for configuring CA bundles for validation and injection webhooks.
```

> - **Fixed** Gathering `pprof` data from the local ztunnel admin endpoint would fail due to lack of writable in-container `/tmp`
>   ([Issue #50060](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50060))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** gathering `pprof` data from the local ztunnel admin endpoint, which would fail due to the lack of a writable in-container `/tmp`.
  ([Issue #50060](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50060))
```

> - **Removed** deprecated `external` profile, use `remote` profile instead for installation.
>   ([Issue #48634](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48634))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** deprecated `external` profile. Please use the `remote` profile instead for installation.
  ([Issue #48634](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48634))
```

## istioctl

> - **Updated** `istioctl experimental proxy-stauts` has been promoted to `istioctl proxy-status`. The old `istioctl proxy-status` command has been removed.
> This promotion should not result in any loss of functionality. However, the request is now sent based on xDS instead of HTTP, and we have introduced a set of new xDS-based flags to target the control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `istioctl proxy-stauts` command, which is the promoted `istioctl experimental proxy-status` command. The old `istioctl proxy-status` command has been removed.
  This promotion should not result in any loss of functionality. However, the request is now sent based on xDS instead of HTTP, and we have introduced a set of new xDS-based flags to target the control plane.
```

- **Added** support for multi-cluster analysis in `istioctl analyze` command when there are remote cluster secrets set up through [Install Multicluster](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/).

> - **Added** a new `istioctl dashboard proxy` command, which can be used to show the admin UI of different proxy pods, like Envoy, Ztunnel, Waypoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** a new `istioctl dashboard proxy` command, which can be used to show the admin UI of different proxy pods, for example: Envoy, ztunnel, and waypoint.
```

> - **Added** `--proxy` option to `istioctl experimental wait` command.
>   ([Issue #48696](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48696))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `--proxy` option to `istioctl experimental wait` command.
  ([Issue #48696](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48696))
```

> - **Added** namespace filtering to `istioctl pc workload` using the `--workloads-namespace` flag, to display workloads in a specific namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** namespace filtering to `istioctl proxy-config workload` command using the `--workloads-namespace` flag to display workloads in the specified namespace.
```

> - **Added** `istioctl dashboard istio-debug` to display the Istio debug endpoints dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `istioctl dashboard istio-debug` command to display the Istio debug endpoints dashboard.
```

> - **Added** `istioctl x describe` supports displaying the details of policies for `PortLevelSettings`.
>   ([Issue #49802](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49802))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `istioctl experimental describe` command to support displaying the details of policies for `PortLevelSettings`.
  ([Issue #49802](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49802))
```

> - **Added** ability to define the traffic address type (service, workload, all or none) for waypoints via the `--for` flag when using the `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.  ([Issue #49896](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49896))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** ability to define the traffic address type (service, workload, all or none) for waypoints via the `--for` flag when using the `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.
  ([Issue #49896](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49896))
```

> - **Added** Allow user to name their waypoint through istioctl via --name flag on the waypoint command.
> **Removed** Remove ability for user to specify service account for the waypoint by deleting the --service-account flag on the waypoint command
>   ([Issue #49915](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49915)),([Issue #50173](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50173))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability to name waypoints through `istioctl` via the `--name` flag on the waypoint command.
  ([Issue #49915](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49915)), ([Issue #50173](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50173))

- **Removed** the ability to specify a service account for the waypoint by deleting the `--service-account` flag on the waypoint command.
  ([Issue #49915](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49915)), ([Issue #50173](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50173))
```

> - **Added** Allow user to enroll their waypoint in the waypoint's namespace through istioctl via --enroll-namespace flag on the waypoint command.  ([Issue #50248](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50248))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability to enroll a waypoint proxy in the waypoint's namespace through `istioctl` via the `--enroll-namespace` flag on the waypoint command.
  ([Issue #50248](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50248))
```

> - **Added** Add ztunnel-config istioctl command. Allow users to view Ztunnel configuration information through istioctl via ztunnel-config workload flag.
> **Removed** Remove workload flag from proxy-config command. Users must use ztunnel-config command to view Ztunnel configuration information.  ([Issue #49841](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49841))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `istioctl ztunnel-config` command. This allow users to view ztunnel configuration information via the `istioctl ztunnel-config workload` command.
  ([Issue #49841](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49841))

**Removed** the workload flag from proxy-config command. Use `istioctl ztunnel-config workload` command to view ztunnel configuration information instead.
  ([Issue #49841](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49841))
```

> - **Added** Warn user in standard out when `istioctl experimental waypoint apply --enroll-namespace` is called and namespace is not labeled ambient.  ([Issue #50396](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50396))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** a warning when using `istioctl experimental waypoint apply --enroll-namespace` and the namespace is not labeled for ambient redirection.
  ([Issue #50396](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50396))
```

> - **Added** Add --for flag to istioctl x waypoint generate command so that the user can preview the yaml before they apply it.  ([Issue #50790](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50790))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `--for` flag to `istioctl experimental waypoint generate` command so that the user can preview the YAML before they apply it.
  ([Issue #50790](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50790))
```

> - **Added** an experimental OpenShift Kubernetes platform profile to `istioctl`. To install with the OpenShift profile, use `istioctl install --set profile=openshift`.
>  ([OpenShift Platform Setup]( https://istio.io/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/))([Install OpenShift using `istioctl`]( https://istio.io/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#install-a-different-profile))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** an experimental OpenShift Kubernetes platform profile to `istioctl`. To install with the OpenShift profile, use `istioctl install --set profile=openshift`.
  See [OpenShift Platform Setup]( https://istio.io/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/) and [Install OpenShift using `istioctl`]( https://istio.io/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#install-a-different-profile) documents for more information.
```

> - **Added** `istioctl experimental envoy-stats` supports custom proxy admin port with `--proxy-admin-port`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the flag `--proxy-admin-port` to the command `istioctl experimental envoy-stats` to set a custom proxy admin port.
```

- **Fixed** an issue where the `istioctl experimental proxy-status <pod>` compare command was not working due to unknown configs.

> - **Fixed** `istioctl describe` command not displaying Ingress information under non `istio-system` namespaces.
>   ([Issue #50074](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50074))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** the `istioctl describe` command not displaying Ingress information under non `istio-system` namespaces.
  ([Issue #50074](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/50074))
```
